.\" @(#)an2k2txt.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Michael D. Garris
.\"
.TH AN2K2TXT 1F "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
an2k2txt \- Converts an ANSI/NIST 2007 file to a formatted text file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B an2k2txt
.I <ansi_nist in>
.I <fmttext out>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B An2k2txt
parses a standard  compliant ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 file
and writes its contents to a new file in a textually viewable and
editable format.  The contents of binary image fields are stored
to temporary files and externally referenced in the output file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <ansi_nist in>
the ANSI/NIST file to be converted
.TP
.I <fmttext out>
the output text file
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version

.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
Every line in the output text represents a single information
item from the ANSI/NIST file.  These lines are formatted as
follows:
.PP
.RS
\fIr.f.s.i \fR[\fIt.n\fR]=\fIvalue{US}
.TP
.I r.f.s.i
references the information item with
.RS
.TP
.I r
the item's positional \fIr\fRecord index in the file
.TP
.I f
the item's positional \fIf\fRield index in the record
.TP
.I s
the item's positional \fIs\fRubfield index in the field
.TP
.I i
the item's positional \fIi\fRtem index in the subfield
.PP
Note that all indices start at 1.
.RE
.TP
.I t.n
references the Record Type and Field ID from
the standard.
.RS
.TP
.I t
the record's \fIt\fRype
.TP
.I n
the field's ID \fIn\fRumber
.RE
.TP
.I value
is the textual content of the information item, unless
the information item contains binary image data, in which case,
the value is the name of an external file containing the binary data.
.TP
.I {US}
is the non-printable ASCII character 0x1F.  This separator character
is one of 4 used in the standard.  In VIM, this non-printable
character may be entered using the ^v command and entering the
decimal code "31".  In Emacs, this non-printable character may
be entered using the ^q command and entering the octal code "037".

.RE
.RE
\fBExample Output Lines
.PP
.RS
1.5.1.1 [1.005]=19990708\(bu
.PP
This is the information item corresponding to the Date (DAT) field
in the standard.
It is the 5th field in a Type-1 record, and the Type-1 record is
always the first record in the ANSI/NIST file; therefore, its record
index is 1, its field index is 5, its subfield index is 1, and its
item index is 1.  The value of this information item represents the date
of July 8, 1999.  The '\(bu' at the end of the line represents the
non-printable {US} character.

1.3.4.1 [1.003]=14\(bu
.PP
This information item is part of the File Content (CNT) field.
The CNT field is the 3rd field in a Type-1 record, so this
information item's record index is 1 and its field index is 3.
This information item is in the 4th subfield of the CNT field, and
has an item index of 1; therefore, its value 14 signifies that the
4th record (the subfield index) in this ANSI/NIST file is a Type-14
record.

4.14.1.1 [14.999]=fld_2_14.tmp\(bu
.PP
This information item corresponds to an Image Data field of a
Type-14 record.  This field always has numeric ID 999 and is
always the last field in the image record.  This Type-14 record
is the 4th record in this ANSI/NIST file, so the Image Data information
item has record index 4, and it is in the 14th field (field index 14)
in the record.  This information item in the ANSI/NIST file contains
binary pixel data, so the output value "fld_2_14.tmp" references an
external filename into which \fBan2ktotxt\fR stored the item's binary
data.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/an2k/execs/an2k2txt/an2k2txt.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % an2k2txt ../../data/nist.an2 nist.fmt
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR an2ktool (1F),
.BR txt2an2k (1F)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
