.\" @(#)an2k2iaf.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Michael D. Garris
.\"
.TH AN2K2IAF 1F "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
an2k2iaf \- Modifies minutiae and fingerprint image records
in an ANSI/NIST 2007 file to meet FBI/IAFIS specifications.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B an2k2iaf
.I <file in>
.I <file out>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B An2k2iaf
parses a standard  compliant ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 file
and, if necessary, converts specific records and fields
to meet FBI/IAFIS specifications.
Please note that this utility does not
exhaustively validate the output to ensure compliant
FBI/IAFIS transactions, rather it focuses on the
format of minutiae and image records.

Minutiae fields:
.br
When a Type-9 record is encountered in the input file,
this utility checks to see which fields are populated.
If the NIST-assigned fields 5-12 are populated, but the
FBI/IAFIS-assigned fields 13-23 are empty, then the
FBI/IAFIS fields are populated by translating the data
recorded in the NIST fields, and the NIST fields are
removed.

Image records:
.br
FBI/IAFIS specifications (EFTS V7) require binary field
images; therefore, this utility looks for tagged field
fingerprint records and converts them appropriately.  If a
Type-13 or Type-14 record is encountered, it is inspected to
determine if the image is bi-level or grayscale and to
see what scan resolution and image compression was used.
Records containing bi-level images scanned at 19.69 ppmm
(500 ppi) and either WSQ-compressed or uncompressed
are converted to Type-6 records; records containing grayscale
images scanned at 19.69 ppmm and either WSQ-compressed or
uncompressed are converted to Type-4 records; otherwise,
the tagged field image record is ignored.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <file in>
the ANSI/NIST file to be converted
.TP
.I <file out>
the resulting ANSI/NIST file
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/an2k/execs/an2k2iaf/an2k2iaf.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % an2k2iaf ../../data/nist.an2 iafis.an2
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR iaf2an2k (1F),
.BR mindtct (1C)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
