.\" @(#)bozorth3.1 2004/09/24 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Stanley A. Janet
.\"
.TH BOZORTH3 1E "24 September 2004" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"


.SH NAME
bozorth3 \- Computes match scores between fingerprints


.\" [\fIFILE\fR]...


.SH SYNOPSIS
.br
.B bozorth3
[\fIoptions\fR]
.I probe-file.xyt
.I gallery-file.xyt
.I ...
.br
.B bozorth3
.RI [ options ]
.BI \-M " mates.lis"
.br
.B bozorth3
.\" .RI [ options ]
[\fIoptions\fR]
.BI \-P " probe.lis"
.I gallery*.xyt
.br
.B bozorth3
.RI [ options ]
.BI \-G " gallery.lis"
.I probe*.xyt
.br
.sp
.B bozorth3
.\" .RI [ options ]
[\fIoptions\fR]
.BI \-p " probe-file.xyt"
.I gallery*.xyt
.br
.B bozorth3
.RI [ options ]
.BI \-p " probe-file.xyt " \-G " gallery.lis"
.br
.B bozorth3
.RI [ options ]
.BI \-g " gallery-file.xyt"
.I probe*.xyt
.br
.B bozorth3
.RI [ options ]
.BI \-g " gallery-file.xyt " \-P " probe.lis"
.br

.SH DESCRIPTION
The program
.I bozorth3
computes match scores from fingerprint minutiae files. The files
are expected to be in xyt-format, a simple text file format that is
produced by the minutiae detector program \fImindtct\fR, which is
also part of the NFIS distribution.

By default, each pair of arguments on the command line is considered
to be a probe file and a gallery file, in that order, that are to be
matched to yield a score of similarilty. The higher the score, the more
closely the minutiae in them match. The match score for known mates
is often close to the number of minutiae in the probe or gallery file,
but it can be lower or higher than that number, sometimes much higher.

There are two main mechanisms that allow running the \fIbozorth3\fR
matcher other than by simply specifying pairs of xyt-files on the
command line.  The mechanisms are useful or necessary under several
circumstances.  For example, with large data sets, the number of
pairs of files to be matched could easily exceed the maximum size
the user's shell permits on a command line, or that's permitted by
\fIexec*()\fP system calls.  And there are cases where it's just more
logical to have input filenames stored in a file.  So one mechanism
uses \fIlist files\fR \(em they contain xyt-filenames, one per line,
with newline characters as line-endings.  The other mechanism fixes
the probe (or gallery) file for an entire run, so that the filename
doesn't have to be specified over and over again.

One form of the list file mechanism allows the pairs of files to be
read from a single file.  The \fI-M mates.lis\fR option requires
a single list file of filenames to be matched against each other.
The probe filenames are on the odd lines, and the gallery filenames
are on the even lines.

Similarly, the \fI-P probes.lis\fR option specifies that the probe
filenames are in the file, and the gallery filenames come from the
command line. The \fI-G gallery.lis\fR option specifies just the
opposite. Both options may be present, in which case all filenames
will be read from the two files, and there will be no xyt-files on
the command line.

The other subset of mechanisms fix a single file to be matched against
a gallery (or probe) set of any size. For example, \fI-p probe-file\fR
fixes the probe file for the entire run; it will be matched against
a gallery consisting of all other files on the command line (or, if
\fI-G gallery.lis\fR is specified, against a gallery read from a file).

The \fI-g gallery-file\fR option specifies just the opposite. While
it may seem illogical to reverse the notion of probe and gallery files
by allowing a single gallery file to be compared against a probe set,
it's allowed both for consistency and to make it easier to test how
close scores are when the files are matched in reverse order.

Fixing both the probe and gallery file is legal, but it's equivalent
to having just a single pair of filenames on the command line without
the \fI-p\fR and \fI-g\fR.

The score for a probe file \fIa\fR matched to a gallery file \fIb\fR
is often identical to the score for \fIb\fR matched to \fIa\fR. One
one data set, the scores were the same more than 75% of the time,
and only a very small number were different by more than 3.

.SH "Minutiae file format"

Each line in a minutiae file contains three integers, representing the
x- and y-coordinates and direction of the minutiae, and an optional
fourth column of integers representing the quality of the minutiae
at those coordinates.  If the quality column isn't present in a file,
all minutiae are assumed to be of the same quality.

A finger typically has 40-80 minutiae. Any automated minutiae extractor
will, of course, flag some things as minutiae that aren't. To work
with highly sensitive minutiae detectors such as \fImindtct\fR, the
\fIbozorth3\fR matcher allows each xyt-file to contain as many as 1000
minutiae lines.  However, by default, only the 150 highest-quality
minutiae are used to compute the match score.  That number may be
changed to any number from 0 to 200.  If multiple minutiae have the
same quality value at the cut-off point, the tie-breaking method is
simple truncation of the list, sorted by quality but with an undefined
sort order among its equal-quality elements.

The optimal number of minutiae that should be used depends on the
fingerprint images and the minutiae detector that processes them. Using
more than is necessary typically reduces the accuracy of the matcher
and increases its run time.

To compute a match score between two fingerprints, both sets must have
at least a minimum number of minutiae.  That number is 10 by default,
and can be changed to any non-zero integer.  Otherwise the computation
returns a match score of 0.

.SH OPTIONS
The command line options can be logically grouped into
four classes:

.SH "General options"
.TP
-h
Print a help screen detailing the command line options.
.TP
-version
Print ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.
.TP
-v
Enable verbose mode.
.TP
-A verbose=<section>
Enable verbose mode in a section of the code; the recognized sections
are: main, load, bozorth, threshold.


.SH "Input options"
.TP
-m1
all xyt files use representation according to ANSI INCITS 378-2004. This
flag must be used if it was used by the \fBmindtct\fR algorithm when extracting
the minutiae points.
.TP
-n max-minutiae
Set maximum number of minutiae to use from any file [150];
the legal range is [0,200].
.TP
-A minminutiae=#
Set minimum number of minutiae required for the match score to be more than 0 [10].
.TP
-A maxfiles=#
Set maximum number of files in any gallery, probe, or mates list file [10000].
.TP
-A plines=#-#
Process a subset of files in the probe file.
.TP
-A glines=#-#
Process a subset of files in the gallery file.
.TP
-A dryrun
Test mode only. Do not compute and print any match scores, just print the
filenames between which match scores would be computed.


.SH "Thresholding options"
.TP
-T threshold
Set match score threshold. By default, all match scores are
printed. However, when a threshold specified, only match scores
meeting or exceeding that value are printed.
.TP
-q
Quit processing the probe file when a gallery file
is found for which the match score meets or exceeds the specified threshold.

.SH "Output options"
.TP
-A nooutput
Compute match scores, but don't print them.
.TP
-A outfmt=[spg]*
Output lines will contain (s)core, (p)robe and/or 
(g)allery filename. By default, only scores are output.
.TP
-O score-dir
Set the directory to write score files in.
.TP
-o score-file
Set the filename to store scores in.
.TP
-e stderr-file
Set the filename to store all other output in.
.TP
-b
Use the default Standard I/O buffering to print the
match scores. This is equivalent to line-buffering
when the output is being printed to a terminal,
and to block-buffering when the output is being printed
to a file.
.TP
-l
Use line-buffering to print the match scores.
By default, output lines are stored and printed
just prior to the \fIbozorth3\fP exiting.


.SH SEE ALSO
.B mindtct (1C)


.SH AUTHOR
Allan S. Bozorth of the FBI; modified by Michael Garris 
and Stan Janet, both of NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group.
