.\" @(#)chgdesc.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH CHGDESC 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
chgdesc \- changes the description string of a PCASYS data file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chgdesc
.I <datafile> <new_desc>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Chgdesc
replaces the existing description string of a PCASYS data file with
the provided string.

The new description can be of any length, but it must not contain
embedded newline characters.  If it contains spaces, tabs, or shell
metacharacters that are not to be expanded, then it should be quoted.
To delete a file's description string, i.e. to replace it with the
empty string, use '' (quoted empty string) as the string argument.

The command makes, and then removes, a temporary version of the data
file, in the same directory as the original file; its filename is the
original filename with _chgdesc<pid> appended, where <pid> is the
process id of the chgdesc command instance.  (In the unlikely event
that a file of this name already exists, chgdesc exits with an error
message, rather than replacing that file.)  If the original data file
is large, then make sure, before running chgdesc, that the disk
partition where the original file lives has enough room for the
temporary copy.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <datafile>
Data file whose description field is to be changed.
.TP
.I <new_desc>
The new description string.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/chgdesc/chgdesc.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % chgdesc fv1.acl 'fv1.cls'
.br
Puts the string fv1.cls in the description field of the
file fv1.acl.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
datainfo (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
