.\" @(#)cropcoeff.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Kenneth Ko
.\"
.TH CORPCOEFF 1F "03 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
cropcoeff \- Read AN2K/AN2K7 file, and crop each Type-14 record.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cropcoeff
.I [option]
.I <file in>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B CropCoeff
Extracts the individual fingerprint images from the WSQ compressed slap
images (left/right hand, thumbs) in ANSI/NIST 2007 Type-14 records into
individual WSQ files without decompressing/recompressing the slap images.
The ANSI/NIST 2007 Type-14 record must contain both the WSQ compressed
slap image and the corresponding segmentation coordinates.  Segmentation
coordinates are stored in the Type-14 record as defined in the
ANSI/NIST 2007 specification.

This code is briefly described in the following in the following report
http://www.mitre.org/work/tech_papers/tech_papers_08/08_0060/index.html

CropCoeff DOES NOT compute segmentation coordinates, it simply uses
whatever is provided in the Type-14 record.  If no coordinates are
provided in the Type-14 record CropCoeff does not produce output for
that slap image.

CropCoeff will move the x,y coordinates of the top-left corner of each
segmentation box to the nearest factor of 32 pixels.  CropCoeff will move
any edge that is within 24 pixels of the slap image edge out to
that image limit. CropCoeff will expand any segmentation box less than 100
pixels in width or height up to 100 pixels, by equally (when possible) expand
the corresponding edges of the segmentation box.  The extracted
fingerprint images do contain some "noise" in the reconstructed image
around the edges as compared to decompressing the full slap image and
extracting the same pixels from that reconstructed image.  This is
caused by "edge wrapping/boundary" conditions in the WSQ algorithm.

The output files from CropCoeff can be decompressed individually with a
WSQ compliant algorithm.

The output files contain the base name of the input file with a new extension
containing the finger position (FNG).  For example if the input file is
file.an2 then the output files would be file.<FNG>.wsq. FNG is assigned a
value 1-10 corresponding to the finger number for that segmented image.
The number are defined as 1-R. Thumb, 2-R Index, 3-R. Middle, 4-R. Ring,
5-R. Little, 6-L. Thumb, 7-L. Index, 8-L. Middle, 9-L. Ring, and 10-L. Little.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I -v L 
set verbose level of the corp wsq image which "L" is a integer.
.TP
.I <file in>
the ANSI/NIST file to be converted
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/an2k7/execs/cropcoeff/cropcoeff.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % cropcoeff ../../data/nist.an2
.PP
.B % cropcoeff -v 1 ../../data/nist.an2

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
