.\" @(#)datainfo.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH DATAINFO 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
datainfo \- shows the header information of a PCASYS data file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B datainfo
.I <datafile>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Datainfo
reads the header information from a PCASYS data file and writes a
short report of this information to the standard output.

The file must be in one of the official PCASYS
data file formats, which are "matrix" (matrix of floating point
numbers), "covariance" (covariance matrix of floating point numbers,
with only the nonstrict lower triangle stored since a covariance
matrix is symmetric), and "classes" (classes, represented as
unsigned characters, which are thought of as being integers in the
range 0 through 255).  PCASYS data files come in these three types,
and can be either "ascii" or "binary", so there are really 6 types
in all.

Datainfo reports the description string of the data file,
its type (matrix, etc.), whether it is ascii or binary, and then
some final information specific to the file type: if matrix,
the two dimensions; if covariance, the order (of the symmetric
covariance matrix, i.e. the number that both dimensions equal) and
the number of input vectors used to make the covariance; if classes,
the number of elements.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <datafile>
Data file whose header information is to be reported.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/datainfo/datainfo.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % datainfo ../../data/oas/fv1-9.cls >& fv1-9cls.dat
.PP
.B % datainfo ../../data/oas/fv1.oas >& fv1oas.dat
.PP
.B % datainfo ../meancov/fv1-9.cov >& fv1-9cov.dat
.br
Prints out the file header information for the various types
of files, class (fv1-9.cls), orientation arrays (fv1.oas),
and covariance (fv1-9.cov).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
chgdesc (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
