.\" @(#)diffbyts.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Craig Watson
.\"
.TH DIFFBYTS 1G "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
diffbyts \- takes two binary data files and compares them byte
for byte, compiling a cumulative histogram of differences.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diffbyts
.I <file1>
.I <file2>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Diffbyts
takes as input two binary files of equal length and compares the
contents between the two files byte for byte.  The differences
between corresponding pairs of bytes are accumulated into a histogram,
where each bin in the histogram represents the integer difference
between the byte pairs.  Therefore, the first bin in the histogram
contains the count of all those byte pairs that are exactly the same
(a difference of 0); the next bin contains the count of all those
byte pairs that are different by exactly 1; and so on.

Upon completion, this utility prints a formatted report of the
accumulated histogram to standard output.  Each difference
bin in the histogram is listed on separate line in the report
and formatted at follows:

.RS
d[\fIb\fR] = \fIc\fR : \fIp\fR
.RE
.br
where
.br
.RS
.TP
.I b
is the current bin's byte pair difference.
.TP
.I c
is the number of corresponding byte pairs with difference
equal to \fIb\fR.
.TP
.I p
is the cumulative percentage of corresponding pairs of bytes
counted in all the bins up to and including the current bin.
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <file1>
a binary file to be compared byte for byte to \fIfile2\fR.
.TP
.I <file2>
a binary file to be compared byte for byte to \fIfile1\fR.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/imgtools/execs/diffbyts/diffbyts.src\fR:
.RS
.PP
.B % diffbyts ../../data/finger/gray/raw/finger.raw ../dwsq/finger.raw > finger.hst
.br
compiles and stores a byte-difference histogram reporting
the amount of image degradation due to lossy WSQ compression.

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
