.\" @(#)dpyan2k.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Stan Janet & Michael D. Garris
.\" record selection options added by Joseph C. Konczal
.\"
.TH DPYAN2K 1F "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
dpyan2k \- display image and minutiae contents of an
ANSI/NIST file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpyan2k
.RB [ \-vxIN ]
.RB [ \-f 
.IR FGP[:IMP] ]
.RB [ \-i 
.IR IMP ]
.RB [ \-n 
.IR IDC ]
.RB [ \-t 
.IR LRT ]
.RB [ \-q 
.IR NQM ]
.RB [ \-r 
.IR rec-sel-in-file ]
.RB [ \-w 
.IR rec-sel-out-file ]
.RB [ \-a 
.IR accel-factor ]
.RB [ \-b 
.IR border-width ]
.RB [ \-p 
.IR minutia-size ]
.RB [ \-W 
.IR width ]
.RB [ \-H 
.IR height ]
.RB [ \-X 
.IR x-pos ]
.RB [ \-Y 
.IR y-pos ]
.RB [ \-T 
.IR title ]
.RB [ \-d 
.IR display ]
.RB [ \-version ]
.I ANSI/NIST-file ...


.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBDpyan2k\fR displays the image records in a sequence of X11
windows.  Overlays any corresponding minutiae from Type-9 records
contained in an ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 file.  Shows any segmentation
data in Type-14 SEG or ASEG fields using unfilled colored polygons,
typically rectangles.  Some of the options, including \fB-f\fR, can be
used to select certain records to display, otherwise all images are
displayed.

If multiple input files are specified,
\fIdpyan2k\fP reads each ANSI/NIST file into memory and
displays its contents, one file at a time.  Multiple image
records within an ANSI/NIST file are displayed simultaneously
by forking background window processes, one for each
image record.

If an image is too large to be displayed on the screen,
the upper left hand corner will be displayed and the rest of the
image can be moved into view by holding down a mouse button,
moving in the direction desired, and then releasing the button.
Button presses when another button(s) is already down
and button releases when another button(s) is still down
are ignored.

Users may remove a displayed image window by striking any key
within that window.  Once all windows associated with a
particular ANSI/NIST file have been removed, the utility proceeds
to display the contents of the next ANSI/NIST file listed on
the command line.

.SH OPTIONS
.\" The following combination of several items separated by .br,
.\" followed by .RS/.RE seems to adequately approximate a tagged
.\" paragraph (.TP) with multiple tags.
.P
\fB-f \fIfinger position (FGP)\fR
.br
\fB-i \fIimpression type (IMP)\fR
.br
\fB-n \fIimage descriptor character (IDC) (actually a small number)\fR
.br
\fB-t \fIlogical record type (LRT)\fR
.br
\fB-q \fINIST fingerprint image quality metric (NQM)\fR
.br
\fB-r \fIread record selector from a file\fR
.br
\fB-w \fIwrite record selector to a file\fR
.RS
See
.BR record_selector (1F)
for details on these record selector options.
.RE
.TP
\fB-a \fIn
sets drag accelerator to \fIn\fR \(em changes in pointer position
will result in \fIn\fR shifts in the displayed image [1].
.TP
\fB-v
turns on verbose output.
.TP
\fB-x
turns on debug mode, causing a core dump when an X11 error occurs.
.TP
\fB-b \fIn
sets border width to \fIn\fP pixels [4].
.TP
\fB-I
directs the utility to use the FBI/IAFIS fields 13-23 in a Type-9
record when overlaying minutiae on an image. (This was changed from
little i in version 1 to capital I in version 2.)
.TP
\fB-N
directs the utility to use the NIST fields 5-12 in a
Type-9 record when overlaying minutiae on an image.  This
is the default setting. (This was changed from
little n in version 1 to capital N in version 2.)
.TP
\fB-p
sets the pixel width of overlayed minutia points [3].
.TP
\fB-W \fIn
displays image in a window of width \fIn\fR pixels.
.TP
\fB-H \fIn
displays image in a window of height \fIn\fR pixels.
.TP
\fB-X \fIn
positions image window with top-left corner \fIn\fR
pixels to the right of the display's top-left corner [0].
.TP
\fB-Y \fIn
positions image window with top-left corner \fIn\fR
pixels below the display's top-left corner [0].
.TP
\fB-T \fItitle
sets all image window names to \fItitle\fR.
.TP
\fB-d \fIdisplay
connects to an alternate X11 display.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.
\fI<ANSI_NIST ...>
one or more ANSI/NIST files with images and possbily
minutiae to be displayed.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B % dpyan2k ../../data/nist.an2
.br
displays image records and overlays minutia using NIST
Type-9 fields.

.B % dpyan2k -I ../../data/iafis.an2
.br
displays image records and overlays minutia using FBI/IAFIS
Type-9 fields.

.B % dpyan2k -ft:r ../../data/a001-seg.an2
.br
displays image records containing rolled thumbs and overlays
segmentation results recorded in the data file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR an2ktool (1F),
.BR dpyimage (1G),
.BR mindtct (1C),
.BR record_selector (1F)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
