.\" @(#)dpyimage.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Stan Janet
.\"
.TH DPYIMAGE 1G "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
dpyimage \- displays the image contents of Baseline JPEG,
Lossless JPEG, WSQ, IHead, and raw pixmap files.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpyimage
[\fIoptions\fR]
.I image-file ...
.RS 10
.br
\fB-r \fIw\fR,\fIh\fR,\fId\fR,\fIwp
.br
\fB-A
.br
\fB-s \fIn
.br
\fB-a \fIn
.br
\fB-v
.br
\fB-x
.br
\fB-b \fIn
.br
\fB-N \fIn
.br
\fB-O
.br
\fB-k
.br
\fB-W \fIn
.br
\fB-H \fIn
.br
\fB-X \fIn
.br
\fB-Y \fIn
.br
\fB-n
.br
\fB-T \fItitle
.br
\fB-t
.br
\fB-D \fIdir
.br
\fB-d \fIdisplay
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Dpyimage
reads various image file formats, decompresses and reconstructs pixmaps
as needed, and displays image contents in an X11 window.  Supported
file formats include Baseline JPEG (lossy), Lossless JPEG,
WSQ (lossy), NIST IHead, and raw pixmap files.  Raw pixmaps containing
either grayscale or interleaved RGB color pixels are supported.
This utility automatically differentiates between these different formats.

If only one file (or the \fI-n\fP option)
is specified on the command line, the image or images are
simply read from disk and then displayed.
If multiple files are specified,
\fBdpyimage\fR attempts to minimize the display waiting time
by forking a background process to pre-read images from disk.
By default, the child
transfers images to the parent via a pipe.
This always allows at least one image to be read in from disk
while the user is viewing the current image.
Since a process writing on a pipe
is blocked (until a read on the other end of the pipe)
after transferring four kilobytes, the child
will only be one image ahead of the parent except when handling
smaller images.

If the \fI-t\fP option appears on the command line,
the processes use temporary files as the means of exchanging
image data. Therefore, the child is not constrained on
the number of images it may pre-read for the parent.
However, the filesystem on which the directory for temporary files resides
must have enough space for copies of all images in uncompressed
state or an error may occur.
This is the suggested mode
for viewing compressed images for which
decompression takes considerably longer than disk I/O.

If the image is too large to be displayed on the screen,
the upper lefthand corner will be displayed and the rest of the
image can be moved into view by holding down a mouse button,
moving in the direction desired, and then releasing the button.
Button presses when another button(s) is already down
and button releases when another button(s) is still down
are ignored.

Users may exit from the program by striking keys 'x' or 'X'.
Advancing to the next image is accomplished by any other
keystroke.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-r, -raw  \fIw\fR,\fIh\fR,\fId\fR,\fIwp
raw pixmap attributes:
.RS
\fIw\fR  - pixel width,
.br
\fIh\fR  - pixel height,
.br
\fId\fR  - pixel depth,
.br
\fIwp\fR - white pixel value
.RS
bi-level  wp=0|1
.br
grayscale wp=0|255
.br
RGB       wp=0 (value ignored)
.RE
.RE
.TP
\fB-A
automatically advances through images.
.TP
\fB-s \fIn
in automatic mode, sleeps \fIn\fP seconds before advancing to
the next image [2].
.TP
\fB-a \fIn
sets drag accelerator to \fIn\fR \(em changes in pointer position
will result in \fIn\fR shifts in the displayed image [1].
.TP
\fB-v
turns on verbose output.
.TP
\fB-x
turns on debug mode, causing a core dump when an X11 error occurs.
.TP
\fB-b \fIn
sets border width to \fIn\fP pixels [4].
.TP
\fB-N \fIn
the child I/O process is niced to level \fIn\fP.
.TP
\fB-O
overrides the redirect on windows (no window manager).
.TP
\fB-k
informs utility that there is no keyboard input.
.TP
\fB-W \fIn
displays image in a window of width \fIn\fR pixels.
.TP
\fB-H \fIn
displays image in a window of height \fIn\fR pixels.
.TP
\fB-X \fIn
positions image window with top-left corner \fIn\fR
pixels to the right of the display's top-left corner [0].
.TP
\fB-Y \fIn
positions image window with top-left corner \fIn\fR
pixels below the display's top-left corner [0].
.TP
\fB-n
does not fork to display multiple images.
.TP
\fB-T \fItitle
sets window name to \fItitle\fR [\fIfile\fR].
\fB-t
uses temporary files to transfer multiple images to parent [via pipe].
.TP
\fB-D \fIdirectory
creates temporary files in \fIdirectory\fP [/tmp].
.TP
\fB-d \fIdisplay
connects to alternate display.
.TP
.I image-file ...
one or more image files whose pixmaps are to be displayed.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
If the environment variable \fBTMPDIR\fR is set
and the \fB-D\fR option is not set on the command line,
\fBdpyimage\fR uses this directory as the location for temporary files.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/imgtools/execs/dpyimage/dpyimage.src\fR:
.PP
.B % dpyimage -r 500,500,8,255 ../../data/finger/gray/raw/finger.raw
.br
displays a fingerprint image from a raw pixmap file.

.B % dpyimage ../../data/finger/gray/jpegl/finger.jpl
.br
displays a reconstructed fingerprint image from a Lossless JPEG file.

.B % dpyimage ../../data/finger/gray/wsq/finger.wsq
.br
displays a reconstructed fingerprint image from a WSQ file.

.B % dpyimage ../../data/face/gray/jpegb/face.jpb
.br
displays a reconstructed grayscale face image from a Baseline JPEG file.

.B % dpyimage -r 768,1024,24,0 ../../data/face/rgb/raw/intrlv/face.raw
.br
displays a color face image from a raw pixmap file.

.B % dpyimage ../../data/face/rgb/jpegb/face.jpb
.br
displays a reconstructed color face image from a Baseline JPEG file.

.B % dpyimage ../../data/face/rgb/jpegl/face.jpl
.br
displays a reconstructed color face image from a Lossless JPEG file.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR an2ktool (1F),
.BR cjpegb (1G),
.BR cjpegl (1G),
.BR cwsq (1G),
.BR djpegb (1G),
.BR djpegl (1G),
.BR dpyan2k (1F),
.BR dwsq (1G)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
