.\" @(#)eva_evt.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH EVA_EVT 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
eva_evt \- finds a desired number of eigenvalues and eigenvectors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
eva_evt
.I <covfile_in> <num_eva_evt_wanted> <evafile>
.I <eva_desc> <evtfile> <evt_desc>
.I <ascii_outfiles>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B eva_evt
finds a desired number of eigenvalues, and corresponding eigenvectors,
of a covariance matrix (or really, of any symmetric positive definite real
matrix). Uses CLAPACK routines, which were originally in Fortran but
were converted into C using f2c.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I <covfile_in>
The covariance matrix (really, symmetric positive definite real
matrix) some of whose eigenvalues and corresponding eivenvectors are
to be found.  Must be a PCASYS "covariance" file. (Usually the output
of \fBmeancov\fR.)
.TP
.I <num_eva_evt_wanted>
Specifies how many eigenvalues and eigenvectors to return for
the given covariance matrix.
.TP
.I <evafile>
File to be written containing the eigenvalues that are found; will be
a PCASYS "matrix" file, with first dimension equal to 1 and second
dimension equal to the number of eigenvalues found.  The eigenvalues
will be stored in decreasing order.
.TP
.I <eva_desc>
A string to be written into the eigenvalues output file as its
description string.  This string can be of any length, but must not
contain embedded newline characters.  If it contains spaces, tabs, or
shell metacharacters that are not to be expanded, then it should be
quoted.  To leave the description empty, use '' (two single quotes,
i.e.  single-quoted empty string).  To let eva_evt make a description
(stating that this is an eigenvalues file made by eva_evt, and showing the
covariance file and number of eigenvalues), use - (hyphen).
.TP
.I <evtfile>
File to be written containing the eigenvectors that are found; will
be a PCASYS "matrix" file.  The i'th row of this matrix will be the
eigenvector corresponding to the i'th entry in the eigenvalues output
file.
.TP
.I <evt_desc>
Description string for eigenvectors output file, or - to let eva_evt make
the description. As per the \fIeva_desc\fR.
.TP
.I <ascii_outfiles>
If y, makes ascii output files; if n, binary.  Binary is recommended,
unless the output files must be portable across different byte orders
or floating\-point formats.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/eva_evt/eva_evt.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % eva_evt ../meancov/fv1-9.cov 128 fv1-9.eva - fv1-9.evt - n
.br
Computes the eigen-values and eigen-vectors for fv1-9.cov and
sorts in decreasing order, then returns the top 128 from that list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
asc2bin (1B), bin2asc (1B), lintran (1B), meancov (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
