.\" @(#)iaf2an2k.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Michael D. Garris
.\"
.TH IAF2AN2K 1F "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
iaf2an2k \- Takes an ANSI/NIST file conforming to FBI/IAFIS specifications
and modifies minutiae and fingerprint image records in support of the
new 2007 standard.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iaf2an2k
.I <file in>
.I <file out>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Iaf2an2k
parses an ANSI/NIST file conforming to the FBI/IAFIS (EFTS V7)
specifications and, if necessary, converts specific records and
fields to take advantage of the ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 standard.
This utility focuses on the format of minutiae and image records.

Minutiae fields:
.br
When a Type-9 record is encountered in the input file,
this utility checks to see which fields are populated.
If the NIST-assigned fields 5-12 are empty, but the
FBI/IAFIS-assigned fields 13-23 are populated, then the
NIST fields are populated by translating the data
recorded in the FBI/IAFIS fields, and the FBI/IAFIS fields are
removed.

Image records:
.br
FBI/IAFIS specifications (EFTS V7) require binary field
images, but the ANSI/NIST 2007 standard introduces tagged
field image records.  To support these new image records,
this utility looks for binary field fingerprint records
and converts them appropriately.  If a Type-4 or Type-6
record is encountered, it is inspected to
determine the impression type of the fingerprint.
Latent fingerprints are converted to Type-13 records,
while all others are converted to Type-14 records.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <file in>
the ANSI/NIST file to be converted
.TP
.I <file out>
the resulting ANSI/NIST file
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/an2k/execs/iaf2an2k/iaf2an2k.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % iaf2an2k ../../data/iafis.an2 nist.an2
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR an2k2iaf (1F)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
