.\" @(#)imgcmp.1 2010/05/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\"
.TH IMGCMP 1G "02 May 2010" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
imgcmp \- takes two binary data files and compares them generating metric data.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B imgcmp
\fB-f\fI <file1>
\fB-F\fI <file2>
.RB [ \-m
.IR metric ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Imgcmp
takes as input two binary files of equal geometry and compares the
contents between the two files.  Equal geometry means that the images
have the same width, height, number of components, component
subsampling factors, etc.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB--help
.br    
\fRPrint software version, copyright, and usage options.
.TP
\fB--version
\fRPrint \fBimgcmp\fR, ANSI/NIST stardard, and NBIS software versions.

.PP
The \fB-f \fRand \fB-F \fRoptions must always be specified. There is no option
for explicit specification of the image format; if the format of either image
cannot be auto-detected, the command will exit with an error.

.TP
\fB-f\fI <file1>
Read, from the file named \fIfile1\fR, the primary (i.e. reference) file to be compared against \fIfile2\fR.
.TP
\fB-F\fI <file2>
A binary file to be compared to \fIfile1\fR.

.TP
\fB-m \fImetric\fR
Specify images differences per metric.

.RS
\fBpsnr\fR - peak signal to noise ratio (PSNR).
.br
\fBmse\fR - mean squared error (MSE).
.br
\fBrmse\fR - root mean squared error (RMSE).
.br
\fBpae\fR - peak absolute error (PAE).
.br
\fBmae\fR - mean absolute error (MAE).
.br
\fBequal\fR - equality.
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR diffbyts (1F),
.B JasPer Software Reference Manual

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
