.\" @(#)lintran.1 2001/04/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH LINTRAN 1B "02 April 2001" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
lintran \- runs a linear transform on a set of vectors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B lintran
.I <vecsfile_in[vecsfile_in...]> <tranmat_file>
.I <nrows_use> <vecsfile_out> <vecsfile_out_desc> <ascii_outfile>
.I <message_freq>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Lintran
runs a linear transform on a set of vectors and reduces the
dimensionality of the feature vectors using the given basis
set \fItranmat_file\fR.

If several processors are available, it may be possible to save time,
when transforming a large set of vectors.  First, run
several simultaneous instances of lintran, each instance transforming
a subset of the vectors.  Then, use stackms to combine the resulting
output files, in the sense of stacking together the matrices.  See the
stackms man page.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <vecsfile_in[vecsfile_in...]>
Input data file(s) in PCASYS "matrix" format, each consisting of a
block of the vectors that are to be transformed.  The input vectors
are the rows.  All input vectors must have the same number of elements,
so the second dimensions of these files (if more than one file) must
all be equal. (Usually the output of the \fBmkoas\fR command.)
.TP
.I <tranmat_file>
A PCASYS "matrix" file containing a transform matrix, some of whose
rows are to be used (see next argument).  The second dimension of
the transform matrix must equal the second dimension of the file(s)
of input vectors. (Usually the output of the \fBeva_evt\fR or
\fBmktran\fR commands.)
.TP
.I <nrows_use>
How many (first) rows of the transform matrix are to be used.
This is how many elements each output vector will have.
.TP
.I <vecsfile_out>
The output vectors, stacked together as a PCASYS "matrix" file, each
vector being one row of the matrix.
.TP
.I <vecsfile_out_desc>
A string to be written into the output file as its description string.
This string can be of any length, but must not contain embedded
newline characters.  If it contains spaces, tabs, or shell
metacharacters that are not to be expanded, then it should be quoted.
To leave the description empty, use '' (two single quotes, i.e.
single\-quoted empty string).  To let lintran make a description
(indicating that lintran was used, and listing the names of the
file(s) of input vectors and of the transform matrix file), use \-
(hyphen).
.TP
.I <ascii_outfile>
If y, makes an ascii output file; if n, binary.  Binary is
recommended, unless the output file must be portable across different
byte orders or floating\-point formats.
.TP
.I <message_freq>
If a positive integer, then every this many vectors through each input
file lintran writes a progress message to the standard output.  If
zero, no messages.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/lintran/lintran.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % lintran ../mkoas/sv10.oas ../eva_evt/fv1-9.evt 128 sv10mlp.kls - n 100
.br
Does transformation using a eigen-vector set made by the
\fBeva_evt\fR command.  Used by MLP classifier.
.PP
.B % lintran ../mkoas/sv10.oas ../mktran/fv1-9.opt 64 sv10pnn.kls - n 100
.br
Does transformation using a set of eigen-vectors that were
adjusted using the \fBoptrws\fR and \fBmktran\fR commands.
Used by the PNN classifier.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
asc2bin (1B), bin2asc (1B), eva_evt (1B), mkoas (1B), mktran (1B),
stackms (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
