.\" @(#)meancov.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH MEANCOV 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
meancov \- computes mean vector and covariance matrix for a set
of feature vectors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B meancov
.I <vecsfile_in[vecsfile_in...]> <meanfile_out> <meanfile_out_desc>
.I <covfile_out> <covfile_out_desc> <ascii_outfiles> <message_freq>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Meancov
computes sample mean vector and sample covariance matrix of a set of
feature vectors.

If several processors are available, it may be possible to save time,
when computing the mean and covariance of a large set of feature vectors.
First, run several simultaneous instances of meancov, each
instance computing the mean and covariance of a subset of the vectors.
Then, use cmbmcs to combine the resulting output files.  See the
cmbmcs man page.
.B Note:
If using cmbmcs, the subset mean vectors made by the meancov instances
must be saved for later use by cmbmcs even if, ultimately, all that
is wanted is the overall covariance matrix. Construction of the
overall covariance requires the subset means, as well as the
subset covariances.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <vecsfile_in[vecsfile_in...]>
Input data file(s) in PCASYS "matrix" format, each consisting of a
block of the vectors that are to be used, i.e. the vectors are the
rows of the matrix (matrices).  Of course, all input matrices must
have the same second dimension, which is the dimension of the
constituent vectors. (Usually the output of \fBmkoas\fR.)
.TP
.I <meanfile_out>
Mean file to be written, in PCASYS "matrix" format, with first dimension
set to 1 and with second dimension set to the dimension of the input
vectors.
.TP
.I <meanfile_out_desc>
A string to be written into the mean output file as its description
string.  This string can be of any length, but must not contain
embedded newline characters.  If it contains spaces, tabs, or shell
metacharacters that are not to be expanded, then it should be quoted.
To leave the description empty, use '' (two single quotes, i.e.
single\-quoted empty string).  To let meancov make a description
(stating that this is a mean vector made by meancov and listing the
names of the input files), use \- (hyphen).
.TP
.I <covfile_out>
Covariance file to be written.  Meancov saves memory and cycles by
allocating a buffer only large enough for the nonstrict lower triangle
of the symmetric covariance matrix and computing only those elements,
and it saves disk space by storing the covariance in PCASYS
"covariance" format, which stores only the nonstrict lower triangle.
The order of the covariance is the dimension of the input vectors.
.TP
.I <covfile_out_desc>
Description string for covariance file or \- to let meancov make the
description, same as for the mean file description argument.
.TP
.I <ascii_outfiles>
If y, makes ascii output files; if n, binary.  Binary is recommended,
unless the output files must be portable across different byte orders
or floating\-point formats.
.TP
.I <message_freq>
If a positive integer, then every this many vectors through each input
file, during the accumulation phase, meancov writes a progress message
to the standard output, and it also writes a few other progress
messages.  If 0, no messages.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
.TP
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/meancov/meancov.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % meancov ../../data/oas/fv[1-9].oas fv1-9.men - fv1-9.cov - n 100
.br
Compute the mean and covariance matrices for a set of feature vectors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cmbmcs (1B), mkoas (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
