.\" @(#)mindtct.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Michael D. Garris
.\"
.TH MINDTCT 1C "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
mindtct \- detects minutiae from a fingerprint image that is either
an ANSI/NIST 2007 formatted file or a WSQ compressed file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mindtct
.I [-b]
.I [-m1]
.I <finger_img_in>
.I <oroot>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mindtct
takes either a WSQ compressed image file or parses a standard
compliant ANSI/NIST-ITL 1-2007 file searching for the first
occurrence of a grayscale fingerprint image record. The fingerprint
image is processed and minutiae are automatically detected.

If the input file was in ANSI/NIST 2007 format the minutiae results
are formatted and stored using the NIST fields 5-12 in a Type-9 record.
Upon successful completion, the input ANSI/NIST record sequence is
augmented with two new records, the Type-9 minutiae record and a
tagged field image record containing the results of image binarization.
This augmented record sequence is then written to the output file
<oroot>.mdt. The minutiae values are also written to a text file
<oroot>.xyt in "x y theta quality" format. This <oroot>.xyt file
is the format used by the bozorth3 matcher.

If the input image is a WSQ compressed file the minutiae are only written
to the text file <oroot>.xyt. In addition a file called <oroot>.brw
is created which is a raw pixel file of the binarized image
created by mindtct when detecting the minutiae points.

The default is minutiae points computed based on the pixel origin being
at the bottom left of the image and directions are pointing out and away
from the ridge ending or bifurcation valley.

.B Mindtct
also generates the following text files in the current
working directory: \fI<oroot>.dm\fR, \fI<oroot>.hcm\fR, \fI<oroot>.lcm\fR,
\fI<oroot>.lfm\fR, \fI<oroot>.qm\fR, and \fI<oroot>.min\fR.
These files are described below.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I [-b]
perform image enhancement on low contrast images.  Only affects low
contrast images, others are unchanged.
.TP
.I [-m1]
write the minutiae points (in files <oroot>.{mdt,xyt,min}) according to
ANSI INCITS 378-2004. This format has the pixel origin at the top left of the
image and directions are pointing up the ridge ending or bifurcation valley.
The default for \fBmindtct\fR has the pixel origin at the bottom left of
the image and directions are pointing out and away from the ridge ending
or bifurcation valley. NOTE: If this flag is used when extracting the
mintuiae points it must also be used with the \fBbozorth3\fR matcher.

.TP
.I <finger_img_in> 
the fingerprint file to be processed
.TP
.I <oroot>
the root name for the output files (<oroot>.???)
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH TEXT OUTPUT FILES
.TP
.I <oroot>.dm
The \fIDirection Map\fR represents the direction of ridge flow within
the fingerprint image.  The map contains a grid of integer directions,
where each cell in the grid represents an 8x8 pixel neighborhood
in the image.  Ridge flow angles are quantized into 16 integer
bi-directional units equally spaced on a semicircle.  Starting with
vertical direction 0, direction units increase clockwise and
represent incremental jumps of 11.25 degrees, stopping at direction
15 which is 11.25 degrees shy of vertical.  Using this scheme, direction
8 is horizontal.  A value of -1 in this map represents a neighborhood
where no valid ridge flow was determined.
.TP
.I <oroot>.hcm
The \fIHigh-Curvature Map\fR represents areas in the image having
high-curvature ridge flow.  This is especially true of core and delta
regions in the fingerprint image, but high-curvature is not limited
to just these cases.  This is a bi-level map with same dimension as
the Direction Map.  Cell values of 1 represent 8x8 pixel
neighborhoods in the fingerprint image that are located within
a high-curvature region, otherwise cell values are set to 0.
.TP
.I <oroot>.lcm
The \fILow-Contrast Map\fR represents areas in the image having
low-contrast.  The regions of low contrast most commonly represent
the background in the fingerprint image.  This is a bi-level map with
same dimension as the Direction Map.  Cell values of 1
represent 8x8 pixel neighborhoods in the fingerprint image that are
located within a low-contrast region, otherwise cell values are set to 0.
.TP
.I <oroot>.lfm
The \fILow-Flow Map\fR represents areas in the image having
non-determinable ridge flow.  Ridge flow is determined using a set
of discrete cosine wave forms computed for a predetermined range
of frequencies.  These wave forms are applied at 16 incremental
orientations.  At times none of the wave forms at none of the
orientations resonate sufficiently high within the region in the
image to satisfactorily determine a dominant directional frequency.
This is a bi-level map with same dimension as the Direction Map.
Cell values of 1 represent 8x8 pixel neighborhoods in the fingerprint
image that are located within a region where a dominant directional
frequency could \fInot\fR be determined, otherwise cell values are set to 0.
The Direction Map also records cells with non-determinable ridge
flow.  The difference is that the Low-Flow Map records \fIall\fR cells
with non-determinable ridge flow, while the Direction Map records
only those that remain non-determinable after extensive \fIinterpolation\fR
and \fIsmoothing\fR of neighboring ridge flow directions.
.TP
.I <oroot>.qm
The \fIQuality Map\fR represents regions in the image having varying
levels of quality.  The maps above are combined heuristically to form
5 discrete levels of quality.  This map has the same dimension as the
Direction Map, with each value in the map representing an 8x8 pixel
neighborhood in the fingerprint image.  A cell value of 4 represents
highest quality, while a cell value of 0 represent lowest possible
quality.
.TP
.I <oroot>.xyt
This text file reports the minutiae detection results.
This reports only the x,y coordinates, theta, and quality of the
minutie points for the image.  Each line in this file contains
the space delimited information for one minutiae point. The
<oroot>.xyt is the minutiae format used by the \fBbozorth3\fR
matching algorithm.
.TP
.I <oroot>.min
This text file reports the minutiae detection results.
The majority of the results listed in this text file are also encoded
and stored in a Type-9 record in the output ANSI/NIST file.  The
first non-empty line in the text file lists the number of minutiae
that were detected in the fingerprint image.  Following this,
the attributes associated with each detected minutia are recorded,
one line of text per minutia.  Each minutia line has the same format.
Fields are separated by a ':', subfields are separated by a ';',
and items within subfields are separated by a ','.  A minutia line
may be represented as:

.RE 2
.RS 2
\fIMN\fR : \fIMX\fR, \fIMY\fR : \fIDIR\fR : \fIREL\fR : \fITYP\fR : \fIFTYP\fR : \fIFN\fR : \fINX1\fR, \fINY1\fR; \fIRC1\fR : ...
.PP
.RE
.RS
.RS
.RS
where:
.TP
.I MN
is the integer identifier of the detected minutia.
.TP
.I MX
is the x-pixel coordinate of the detected minutia.
.TP
.I MY
is the y-pixel coordinate of the detected minutia.
.TP
.I DIR
is the direction of the detected minutia.  Minutia direction is
represented similar to ridge flow direction, only minutia direction
is uni-directional starting at vertical pointing up with unit 0 and
increasing clockwise in increments of 11.25 degrees completing a
full circle.  Using this scheme, the angle of a detected minutia is
quantized into the range 0 to 31 with 8 representing horizontal to the
right, 16 representing vertical pointing down, and 24 representing
horizontal to the left.
.TP
.I REL
is the reliability measure assigned to the detected minutia.  This
measure is computed by looking up the quality level
associated with the position of the minutia from the Quality Map.
The quality level is then heuristically combined with simple
neighborhood pixel statistics surrounding the minutia point.
The results is a floating point value in the range 0.0 to 1.0,
with 0.0 representing lowest minutia quality and 1.0 representing
highest minutia quality.
.TP
.I TYP
is the type of the detected minutia.
.RS
bifurcation  = "BIF"
.br
ridge ending = "RIG"
.RE
.TP
.I FTYP
is the type of feature detected.
.RS
appearing    = "APP"
.br
disappearing = "DIS"
.br
(This attribute is primarily useful for
purposes internal to the minutia detection algorithm.)
.RE
.TP
.I FN
is the integer identifier of the type of feature detected.
(This attribute is primarily useful for
purposes internal to the minutia detection algorithm.)
.TP
.I NX1
is the x-pixel coordinate of the first neighboring minutia.
.TP
.I NY1
is the y-pixel coordinate of the first neighboring minutia.
.TP
.I RC1
is the ridge count calculated between the detected minutia and its
first neighbor.
.TP
.I ...
for each additional neighbor ridge count computed, the pixel
coordinate of the neighbor and the ridge count to that neighbor
are reported.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/mindtct/execs/mindtct/mindtct.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % mindtct ../../data/g001t2u.eft g001t2u
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR an2k2txt (1F),
.BR an2ktool (1F),
.BR dpyan2k (1F),
.BR bozorth3 (1E)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
