.\" @(#)mkoas.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH MKOAS 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
mkoas \- makes orientation arrays from fingerprint images.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mkoas
.I <prsfile>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mkoas
makes orientation arrays (oas), for a set of fingerprint image files.
An oa can be thought of as a 28 (height) by
30 (width) array of real two-dimensional orientation vectors, each of
which represents the local average ridge/valley orientation at one
point of an equally-spaced rectangular grid; but, sometimes it is more
convenient to think of an oa as a single 1680-dimensional real vector
(1680 = 28 x 30 x 2).  To make an oa from a fingerprint, mkoas uses
the same sequence of preprocessing/feature-extraction routines that is
used by the classifier demos pcasys and pcasysx.  Mkoas causes each
oa to be one row of the PCASYS "matrix" file that is its output.

Mkoas sets the values of its parameters as follows.  First, it reads
the default oas-production parms file \fIpcasys/parms/oas.prs\fR; then,
it reads the file of default values of additional mkoas parms,
\fIpcasys/parms/mkoas.prs\fR; finally, it reads the required user
parms file, which is the argument (\fIprsfile\fR).  Each time a parms file
is read, its values override those set by previously read parms
file(s), if any.  See PARAMETER FILES, below, for a description of the
difference between \fIoas.prs\fR and \fImkoas.prs\fR.

Since the oas of a large set of fingerprints can turn out to be
quite a large amount of data, it may be that the entire set of oas
that are to be produced cannot exist as a single file, because of
disk space limitations.  If so, one should run several instances of
mkoas, each producing a matrix file that is a subset of
the required oas.  To estimate output file size as a function of
number of oas, note that each oa consists of 1680
single-precision floating-point numbers, and therefore it takes 1680
x 4 = 6720 bytes.  Allow slightly more space, for header data
contained in a matrix file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <prsfile>
A file containing parameters.  To find out what the available
parameters are, and as examples of the format of parameters files,
consult the default files \fIpcasys/parms/oas.prs\fR and
\fIpcasys/parms/mkoas.prs\fR.  Each parameter is specified
by having its name and value on a line; a pound sign indicates that
the rest of its line is a comment.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH PARAMETER FILES
.TP
.I pcasys/parms/oas.prs
Contains default values of the parameters that affect the making of
orientation arrays (oas): these are the parms of the segmentor
(sgmnt), the image enhancer (enhnc), the ridge-valley orientation
finder (rors), the registration program (r92a), and the
registration-implementing pixelwise orientations reaverager (rgar).
The values used for these parms when making the oas used in
optimizing the classifier should also be used when running the
finished classifier.
.PP
.RS
.B Default settings in \fIpcasys/parms/oas.prs\fR
.TP
.I Used in the segmentation routine:
.TP
.B sgmnt_fac_n \fI5\fR
How many threshold-making factors to try.
.TP
.B sgmnt_min_fg \fI2000\fR
Minimum allowed number of foreground (true) pixels.
.TP
.B sgmnt_max_fg \fI8000\fR
Maximum allowed number of foreground (true) pixels.
.TP
.B sgmnt_nerode \fI3\fR
Do this many erosions in foreground cleanup.
.TP
.B sgmnt_rsblobs \fI1\fR
If 1, remove small blobs in foreground cleanup.
.TP
.B sgmnt_fill \fI1\fR
If 1, fill holes in rows, columns in foreground cleanup.
.TP
.B sgmnt_min_n \fI25\fR
Cutting angle becomes zero if any foreground edge has fewer than
this many pixels.
.TP
.B sgmnt_hist_thresh \fI20\fR
Threshold that tilted-rows-histogram must meet to find top-location
for cutting.
.TP
.B sgmnt_origras_wmax \fI2000\fR
Maximum allowed width of original raster.
.TP
.B sgmnt_origras_hmax \fI2000\fR
Maximum allowed height of original raster.
.TP
.B sgmnt_fac_min \fI0.75\fR
Minimum threshold-making factor value.
.TP
.B sgmnt_fac_del \fI0.05\fR
Delta of threshold-making factor value.
.TP
.B sgmnt_slope_thresh \fI0.90\fR
If any of the three edges has slope differing by more than
this from the average of the slopes, then cutting angle is set to zero.

.TP
.I Used in the FFT image enhancer:
.TP
.B enhnc_rr1 \fI150\fR
High-frequency elements of FFT whose filter plane value is less than this
value are discarded.
.TP
.B enhnc_rr2 \fI449\fR
Low-frequency elements of FFT whose filter plane number is greater than this
value are discarded.
.TP
.B enhnc_pow \fI0.3\fR
Power spectrum is raised to this power before it is multiplied by
the FFT output.

.TP
.I Used in the ridge-valley orientation finder:
.TP
.B rors_slit_range_thresh \fI10\fR
If the difference between the maximum and minimum slit-sums at a pixel
is less than this, then this pixel makes no contribution to the
histogram used to make the local average orientation.
           
.TP
.I Used in the r92a wrapper for r92 registration program:
.TP
.B r92a_discard_thresh \fI0.01\fR
If squared-length of a local-average orientation vector is less than this,
then conversion of this vector to an angle for use by r92 just produces
the special value 100., which means an undefined angle.

.TP
.I Used in the registering pixelwise-orientations-reaverager:
.TP
.B rgar_std_corepixel_x \fI245\fR
X coordinate of standard (median) core position.
.TP
.B rgar_std_corepixel_y \fI189\fR
Y coordinate of standard (median) core position.
This is the standard registration point, to which the particular
core point gets translated to implement registration.
.RE

.TP
.I pcasys/parms/mkoas.prs
Contains default values of additional parameters needed by  mkoas,
besides those appearing in \fIpcasys/parms/oas.prs\fR. Parameters without
defaults values must appear in the users \fIprsfile\fR.
.PP
.RS
.B Default settings in \fIpcasys/parms/mkoas.prs\fR
.TP
\fBascii_oas \fIn\fR
Ascii (y) or binary (n) output?
.TP
.B update_freq \fI1\fR
Frequency of progress messages.
.TP
.B clobber_oas_file \fIn\fR
Overwrite an oas_file if it already exists?
.TP
.B proc_images_list \fI(no default, user must set)\fR
The list of fingerprint images to make orientation arrays from.
.TP
.B oas_file \fI(no default, user must set)\fR
The output file that is to be produced containing orientation arrays.
.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/mkoas/mkoas.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % mkoas sv10.prs
.br
Creates a set of orientation arrays based on the file list
given in the parameters file \fIsv10.prs\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
bin2asc (1B), asc2bin (1B), chgdesc (1B), stackms (1B)


.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
