.\" @(#)mktran.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH MKTRAN 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
mktran \- makes transform matrix from regional weights and
eigenvectors.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mktran
.I <regwts_file> <eigvecs_file> <n_eigvecs_use>
.I <tranmat_file> <tranmat_file_desc> <ascii_outfile>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mktran
takes a matrix of regional weights, and a set of eigenvectors, and
makes a transform matrix from the regional weights and the specified
number of (first) eigenvectors.  The resulting matrix is suitable for
transforming an orientation array into a low\-dimensional feature
vector.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <regwts_file>
Regional weights file in PCASYS "matrix" format.  The dimensions must
be 14x15, because that is the pattern of 2x2\-vector blocks of
orientation vectors. (Usually the output of \fBoptrws\fR.)
.TP
.I <eigvecs_file>
Eigenvectors file in PCASYS "matrix" format.  The first dimension is
the number of eigenvectors contained in the file; the second dimension
must be 1680, which is the dimension of an orientation array when it
is thought of as a single vector. (Usually the output of \fBeva_evt\fR.)
.TP
.I <n_eigvecs_use>
The number (first) eigenvectors to be used.  This will
be the first dimension of the resulting transform matrix.
.TP
.I <tranmat_file>
Transform file to be made, in PCASYS "matrix" format.  First dimension
will be \fIn_eigvecs_use\fR and second dimension will be 1680.
.TP
.I <tranmat_file_desc>
A string to be written into the transform matrix output file as its
description string.  This string can be of any length, but must not
contain embedded newline characters.  If it contains spaces, tabs, or
shell metacharacters that are not to be expanded, then it should be
quoted.  To leave the description empty, use '' (two single quotes,
i.e.  single\-quoted empty string).  To let mktran make a description,
use \- (hyphen).
.TP
.I <ascii_outfile>
If y, makes an ascii output file; if n, binary.  Binary is
recommended, unless the output file must be portable across different
byte orders or floating\-point formats.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/mktran/mktran.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % mktran ../optrws/optrws.bin ../eva_evt/fv1-9.evt 64 fv1-9.opt - n
.br
Uses a set of optimized regional weights (\fIoptrws.bin\fR) to
adjust a eigen-vector basis set (\fIfv1-9.evt\fR) and create
a new transformation matrix (\fIfv1-9.opt\fR) that is used
to reduce the dimensionality of the feature vectors.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
eva_evt (1B), lintran (1B), optrws (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
