.\" @(#)mlpfeats.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Craig I. Watson & C. L. Wilson
.\"
.TH MLPFEATS 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
mlpfeats \- converts PCASYS formatted feature files into
the format compatible with the mlp command line function.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mlpfeats
.I <feats_file> <class_file> <mlp_feats_file>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Mlpfeats
is used to convert a PCASYS formatted feature
file from the lintran function into the format used by the
mlp command. PCASYS keeps the feature file and class file in
separate files and mlp stores them in a single file with
different header information format. At this point it was decided to
just convert the format from PCASYS features to mlp features
file format, any future release may try and resolve this
problem into a single format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <feats_file>
The PCASYS formatted features file. (Usually the output of
\fBlintran\fR.)
.TP
.I <class_file>
The PCASYS formatted class file.
.TP
.I <mlp_feats_file>
The MLP features file to be written, containing the PCASYS formatted
feature and class files merged into a single MLP formatted file.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/mlpfeats/mlpfeats.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % mlpfeats ../lintran/fv1-9mlp.kls ../../data/oas/fv1-9.cls fv1-9mlp.kls
.br
Converts the feature file from the PCASYS file format to the mlp
data file format (combines class and features into a single file.)
It is unfortunate that two file formats exist but for now it is
easier to keep both formats around.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
lintran (1B), mlp (1B)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
