.\" @(#)nfseg.1 2008/02/13 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" Craig Watson
.\" Updated by Joseph Konczal
.\"
.TH NFSEG 1A "19 November 2009" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
nfseg \- Segments multiple finger plain impressions into individual
fingers or removes white space from single finger rolled/plain impressions
isolating just the fingerprint portion of the image.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnfseg \fI[options] <ANSI/NIST in> [<ANSI/NIST out>]\fR
.RS 9
\fB-v
.br
\fB-b \fI<BTHR_ADJ>\fR
.br
\fB-r
.br
\fB-c \fI<COMP_SEG>\fR
.br
\fB-R
.RE
or
.br
\fBnfseg \fI<FGP> <BTHR_ADJ> <ROT_SEARCH> <COMP_SEG> <ROT_SEG> <in file>\fR
.br
or
.br
.B nfseg -version

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBNfseg\fP takes a four finger plain impression fingerprint image
(FGP finger positions 13 "right hand", 14 "left hand", or 0 "Unknown
Hand") and segments it into four individual fingerprint images. For
two-thumb images (FGP 15) \fBnfseg\fR segments the input image into
two individual flat thumb images (FGP 11 and 12).  For single finger
images (FGP 1-12) \fBnfseg\fR can be used to isolate the fingerprint
in the image by removing white space around the fingerprint.

The input image can be in ANSI/NIST format, WSQ compressed format,
baseline JPEG, or lossless JPEG.  \fBNfseg\fR will output the results
to WSQ compressed files (.wsq at 5:1 or 15:1 compression ratio),
lossless JPEG (.jpl) or RAW pixel data (.raw).  \fBNfseg\fR can also
rotate the segmented image to a vertical position or leave it in its
original position.  Output filenames are derived from the input
file name and written into the current working directory. They have an
underscore and finger number appended to the base name.  If the
fingerprint is left in its original position all pixels in the image
outside the fingerprint bounding box are set to white.

If the input is an ANSI/NIST file, the other parameters can be
determined automatically, or overridden by the user.  The binarization
threshold will be adjusted for images where the impression type
inidcates a non-live scan, assuming scanned paper-and-ink, and not
adjusted for live scan images.  Rotation will default to none.  Also,
an output file may be specified, which will have any Type-4 images
converted to Type-14, and the results will be inserted in a SEQ or
ASEQ field depending on whether the search is unrotated or rotated.
If an ANSI/NIST output file is specified, output of individual image
files is normally suppressed, but it can be turned back on by
specifying the type of compression to use with the -c option.  Output
files generated in this mode of operation also include an underscore
and the record number, before the finger number, in order to ensure
none of the files have the same name.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fR
turns on verbose output

.TP
.I <FGP>
indicates the finger position of the input image.

.RS
\fB1-5\fR - right hand rolled impressions
.br
\fB6-10\fR - left hand rolled impressions
.br
\fB11\fR - right thumb plain impression
.br
\fB12\fR - left thumb plain impression
.br
\fB13\fR - right hand four finger plain impression (tend to be rotated left of
vertical)
.br
\fB14\fR - left hand four finger plain impression (tend to be rotated right of
vertical)
.br
\fB15\fR - both thumbs plain impression
.br
\fB0\fR - unknown hand (for four finger plain impression will search all
angles and make guess at hand based on rotation angle)
.br

For segmentation purposes \fB1-12\fR are treated the same. Plain impressions
\fB13-14\fR are treated similarly, the exception being the angles of rotation
that are searched for the four fingers. Unknown type \fB00\fR is searched for
four finger plain impressions over the whole range of angles used in both
left and right hand images. The algorithm will make a guess at left or right
hand based on the rotation angle of the fingerprints.
.RE
.TP
\fB-b\fR or \fI<BTHR_ADJ>\fR Adjust binarization threshold to improve
segmentation of low contrast images.  The \fB-b\fR option overrides
the automatically determined value based on the impression type in the
ANSI/NIST input file.

.RS
\fB0\fR - No threshold adjustment.
.br
\fB1\fR - Adjust binarization threshold higher.
.RE
.TP
\fB-r\fR or \fI<ROT_SEARCH>\fR
Allows user to search the image for rotated fingerprints (ie. 2" data) or
assume the fingerprints are vertical (ie. 3" data).

.RS
\fB0\fR - Assume fingerprints are not rotated.
.br
\fB1\fR - Assume fingerprints may be rotated in the image.
.RE
.TP
\fB-c\fR or \fI<COMP_SEG>\fR 
indicates the type of compression for the
segmented images output, and causes the images to be output even if an
ANSI/NIST output file is specified.

ansi/.RS
\fB0\fR - Lossless JPEG
.br
\fB1\fR - WSQ 5:1
.br
\fB2\fR - WSQ 15:1
.br
\fB3\fR - RAW pixel data
.RE
.TP
\fB-R\fR or \fI<ROT_SEG>\fR
indicates if output image is to be rotated to vertical position.

.RS
\fB0\fR - Do not rotate
.br
\fB1\fR - Rotate to vertical
.RE
.TP
\fB-o \fI<ansi_nist_output_file>\fR 
indicates an ANSI/NIST output file name to which SEG or ASEG records
are added, and output of image files is suppressed
.TP
\fI<file>\fR or \fI<ansi_nist_file>\fR
the input file to be segmented.

.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST standard and NBIS software version.

.SH NFSEG OUTPUT
For each output image, \fBnfseg\fR will print a line of text to standard
output as follows:

.I <filname>
->
.I <error flag> <sw> <sh> <sx> <sy> <theta>

.RS
.I <filename>
the name of the segmented output file.
.TP
.I <error flag>
a flag set if the segmented image does not meet certain minimum requirements.

.RS
\fB0\fR - no errors
.br
\fB1\fR - segmented image width is less than "FING_WIDTH_MIN" parameter
in nfseg.h
.br
\fB2\fR - segmented image height is less than "FING_HEIGHT_MIN" parameter
in nfseg.h
.br
\fB3\fR - spacing between adjacent fingers was less than "FING_SPACE_MIN"
parameter in nfseg.h
.br
\fB4\fR - spacing between adjacent fingers was more than "FING_SPACE_MAX"
parameter in nfseg.h

Error flags 3 and 4 usually indicate the image did not segment correctly.
.SH
.RS
.TP
.I <sw> <sh>
the width and height of the segmented image file

.TP
.I <sx> <sy>
where the center of the segmented image was located at in the original
four finger plain imression image.

.TP
.I <theta>
rotation angle of the fingers in the four finger plain impression image,
positive values are left of vertical and negative values are right.

.SH EXAMPLES
From \fItest/nfseg/execs/nfseg/nfseg.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % nfseg 13 1 1 1 0 a011_13.wsq
.br
segments the image into four single finger plain images. Creates
the output files: a011_13_0[2-5].wsq

.SH BUGS
Ignores segmentation error flags when writing results to an
ANSI/NIST file.

Perhaps a user defined record should be written telling where the SEG
or ASEG data came from.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dwsq (1G),
.BR djpegl (1G),
.BR an2ktool (1F),
.BR txt2an2k (1F),
.BR nfiq (1D)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
