.\" @(#)oas2pics.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH OAS2PICS 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
oas2pics \- makes pictures of orientation arrays.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B oas2pics
.I <oasfile> <i_start> <i_finish outpics_dir> <verbose>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Oas2pics
reads a specified segment of orientation arrays (oas) from a file,
and makes IHead raster images depicting the oas.  This can be useful
for testing whether oas are reasonable, and to find out about their
characteristics.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <oasfile>
A PCASYS "matrix" file containing orientation arrays, with each row being
one oa.  First dimension is number of oas in the file, and second
dimension must be 1680 (the dimensionality of one oa). (Usually the
output of \fBmkoas\fR.)
.TP
.I <i_start> <i_finish>
The program makes pictures of the segment consisting of oas i_start
through i_finish, numbering starting at 1.
.TP
.I <outpics_dir>
The program makes image files in this directory.  (If the directory
does not already exist, the program makes it.)  The files will
have names i.pct where i goes from i_start through i_finish.
.TP
.I <verbose>
If y, the program writes a progress message to stdout for each
oa it is making a picture of.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/asc2bin/asc2bin.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % oas2pics ../../data/oas/fv1.oas 1 2 oaspics y
.br
Makes a set of images files (IHEAD format) so the user can
see how the orientation arrays look and compare to the actual
fingerprint image if desired. The files can be converted to JPEG
format using the \fBcjegb\fR command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mkoas (1B), dpyimage (1G), cjpegb (1G)

.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
