.\" @(#)pcasysx.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH PCASYSX 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
pcasysx \- fingerprint classifier demo, graphical version
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pcasysx
.I [prsfile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Pcasysx
is the graphical fingerprint classifier demo program.  It reads a
sequence of image files, each depicting one box as scanned from a
fingerprint card, and classifies each fingerprint, using a Multi-Layer
Perceptron (MLP) or Probabilistic (PNN) Neural Network, to one of six
pattern\-level classes: Arch, Left loop, Right loop, Scar, Tented
arch, and Whorl. The type of classifier MLP or PNN is chosen in the
parameters file \fIpcasys/parms/pcasys.prs\fR.  Additional
parameters specific to pcasysx are in \fIpcasys/parms/pcasysx.prs\fR.

Pcasysx produces screen graphics illustrating the results of the
processing phases (requires X Windows).  It optionally makes an
output file, containing a results line for each fingerprint and
a summary at the end showing the error rate and the "confusion matrix",
and it optionally writes progress messages to the standard output.

Pcasysx will look in the default location \fIpcasys/parms\fR
for the default parameter files it needs.  There are prototype
and weights files in \fIpcasys/weights/{mlp|pnn}\fR that are needed
by the MLP and PNN classifiers and images needed for the graphics
display in \fIpcasys/images\fR. Also, the current default location
for the 2700 sample fingerprint images is
\fI/NBIS/Test/pcasys/data/images\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I [prsfile]
A file containing one or more parameter values that are to override
the default values.  To find out what the parameters are, and as
examples of the format of a parameters file, consult the default
parameters files that pcasysx reads, namely \fIpcasys/parms/oas.prs\fR,
\fIpcasys/parms/pcasys.prs\fR, and \fIpcasys/parms/pcasysx.prs\fR,
which are described in the section PARAMETER FILES. Each line, in
the parms file consists of a parameter name followed by a value; a
pound sign indicates that the rest of its line is a comment.  If
pcasysx is run with no argument, i.e. not specifying a user
parameters file, then it uses the default values of all parameters.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH PARAMETER FILES
.TP
.I pcasys/parms/oas.prs
Contains default values of the parameters that affect the making of
orientation arrays (oas): these are the parms of the segmentor
(sgmnt), the image enhancer (enhnc), the ridge-valley orientation
finder (rors), the registration program (r92a), and the
registration-implementing pixelwise orientations reaverager (rgar).
The values used for these parms when making the oas used in
optimizing the classifier should also be used when running the
finished classifier.
\fBSee the \fImkoas\fB man page for more information about the parameters
in this file.\fR
.TP
.I pcasys/parms/pcasys.prs
Contains default values of the parameters for \fBpcasysx\fR.
Also look at \fIpcasys.mlp\fR and \fIpcasys.pnn\fR for examples on
using each classifier.
\fBSee the \fIpcasys\fB man page for more information about
the parameters in this file.\fR
.TP
.I pcasys/parms/pcasysx.prs
Contains default values of parameters, in addition to
\fIpcasys/parms/pcasys.prs\fR, that are specific to \fBpcasysx\fR.
.PP
.RS
.B Default settings in \fIpcasys/parms/pcasysx.prs\fR
.PP
\fIParameters for the graphical demo, pcasysx, that control sleeping
(pausing) after displaying various intermediate results.  Value -1
is also allowed: that means wait for user to type enter key before
continuing.\fR
.TP
.B sleeps_titlepage \fI0\fR
after title page
.TP
.B sleeps_sgmntwork \fI1\fR
intermediate results of segmentor
.TP
.B sleeps_segras \fI0\fR
segmented image
.TP
.B sleeps_enhnc \fI1\fR
enhanced image
.TP
.B sleeps_core_medcore \fI3\fR
ridge-orientation bars, core, standard core
.TP
.B sleeps_regbars \fI2\fR
registered ridge-orientation bars
.TP
.B sleeps_featvec \fI1\fR
bar graph of feature vector input to PNN
.TP
.B sleeps_normacs \fI2\fR
bar graph of normalized PNN outputs
.TP
.B sleeps_foundconup \fI1\fR
found a concave-upward pseudoridge (conup)
.TP
.B sleeps_noconup \fI0\fR
all pseudoridges, if no conup is found
.TP
.B sleeps_lastdisp \fI2\fR
results display for the fingerprint

.PP
\fIMouse control parameter:\fR
.TP
.B warp_mouse \fIn\fR
If y (yes), then warp the mouse pointer into graphical window so
its colormap takes effect.  If n (no), no warping.

.PP
\fIPCASYS I/O parameters.\fR
.TP
.B outfile \fIpcasysx.out\fR
Output file to be produced.  If no output file is wanted, set
this to /dev/null.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/pcasys/pcasys.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % pcasysx
Runs the pcasysx demo using the default settings found in
\fI pcasys/parms/pcasysx.prs\fR.
.PP
.B % pcasysx myprsfile
.br
Runs the pcasysx demo using parameters set in \fImyprsfile\fR
to change the value of the default settings.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
pcasys (1B)


.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
