.\" t
.\" Joseph C. Konczal
.\"
.\" License: 
.\" This software was developed at the National Institute of Standards and
.\" Technology (NIST) by employees of the Federal Government in the course 
.\" of their official duties. Pursuant to title 17 Section 105 of the
.\" United States Code, this software is not subject to copyright protection 
.\" and is in the public domain. It has been determined that the export control 
.\" restriction did not apply to the NFSEG and BOZORTH3 software, due to both
.\" being outside the scope of EAR(see Part 734.3 of the EAR for exact details); 
.\" they are freely distributed and considered public domain. NIST assumes no 
.\" responsibility  whatsoever for its use by other parties, and makes no 
.\" guarantees, expressed or implied, about its quality, reliability, or any 
.\" other characteristic. 
.\" 
.\" Disclaimer: 
.\" This software was developed to promote biometric standards and biometric
.\" technology testing for the Federal Government in accordance with the USA
.\" PATRIOT Act and the Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act.
.\" Specific hardware and software products identified in this software were used
.\" in order to perform the software development.  In no case does such
.\" identification imply recommendation or endorsement by the National Institute
.\" of Standards and Technology, nor does it imply that the products and equipment
.\" identified are necessarily the best available for the purpose.
.\"
.TH "AN2K RECORD SELECTOR" 1F "13 March 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
AN2K Record Selector \- Select particular records from ANSI/NIST
data files using metadata in the records.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B command
.RB [ \-f
.IR FGP[:IMP]
.RB [ \-p
.IR PLP ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR FGP or PLP ]
.RB [ \-i
.IR IMP ]
.RB [ \-n
.IR IDC ]
.RB [ \-t
.IR LRT ]
.RB [ \-q
.IR NQM ]
.RB [ \-r
.IR rec-sel-in-file ]
.RB [ \-w
.IR rec-sel-out-file ]
.P
Check the manual pages for individual commands to determine exactly
which options are supported and what letters are used to specify them,
since these suggested letters might have already been used for
something else.  Substitute the word \fI'help'\fR for the parameter to
see a listing of possible values.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Record selectors, consisting of various criteria for matching metadata
associated with the individual records in ANSI/NIST data files, can be
used to specify the records that various commands will act upon.
Records that are not selected will be ignored.
Record selectors can be specified by command line arguments, or record
selector files, which are more difficult to construct but provide more
flexibility.
.SS Command Line Syntax
The names and numbers used in the command line arguments to select
specific records are taken from ANSI/NIST-ITL\~1-2007.
Full names from the standard may be used, but they need to be quoted
if they contain spaces.
Other named sets of values are also recognized, like the finger
position value \fIindex finger\fR, which selects both left and right
index fingers.
For convenience, abbreviations consisting of the first letter of each
word in the name are typically accepted, and any unique initial
substring of a name or abbreviation is also allowed, for example, the
finger position specifications \fIif\fR, \fIin\fR, and \fIind\fR are
all equivalent to \fIindex finger\fR, or \fI2,7\fR.
Case is ignored, so capital and small letters may be used
interchangeably, for example, \fIeji\fR is equivalent to \fIEJI\fR,
and even \fIEjI\fR.
.P
Multiple values of one selector type are implicitly combined using
Boolean \fIor\fR, so \fI-f1,2,3\fR, for example, would select
records containing either finger position 1, finger position 2, or
finger position 3.
Sets of different types of selectors are combined with Boolean
\fIand\fR, so \fI-f1,2 -i3\fR would match a record where the finger
position is 1 or 2 and the impression type is 3.
.P
Because finger position and impression type are expected to be
frequently used together, a means has been developed to specify them
within a single option arguemnt, separated by a colon.  For example,
the finger position and impression type selectors in the previous
example could have been specified as \fI-f1,2:3\fR instead of
\fI-f1,2\~-i3\fR.
.P
Use of this mechanism is at the discression of the programmer of an
application, and it could be applied to other kinds of selectors as
well, so check the individual manual page for each application.
.SS File Syntax
A record selector file consists of one top-level selector, which might
be an \fIand\fR or \fIor\fR item containing a number of nested items.
Items are specified by a short item name or mnemonic followed by the
item value or a list of nested items enclosed within curly brackets.
For example, the command line option \fI-fthumb:rolled\fR would be
equivalent to:
.P
.\" .ne is used to keep the following 16 lines on one page.
.ne 16v
.RS 
.nf
and {
      or {
           fgp   1
           fgp   6
           fgp  11
           fgp  12
         }
      or {
           imp   1
           imp   3
           imp  21
           imp  23
           imp  25
           imp  27
         }
    }
.fi
.RE
.P
.ne 16v
The first \fIor\fR selects any of the four thumb positions.
The second \fIor\fR selects any of the rolled impression types.
The and requires a match in both categories, so that only the rolled
thumb impressions will be selected.
The selector types allowed in the file are shown in the table below.
.TS
allbox;
 cb cb , l l .
Abbreviation	Full Name
and	Boolean AND
or	Boolean OR
fgp	Finger Position
plp	Palm Position
fgplp	Finger or Palm Position
imp	Impression Type
idc	Image Designation Character
lrt	Logical Record Type
nqm	NIST Quality Metric
.TE
.P
.SS Table Syntax
The following tables show the full names of the metadata values that
are named in the standard, additional named sets of values, explicitly
defined alternatves and abbreviations, and the numeric equivalents.
.\" The tables below were generated from select.c. by
.\" gen-select-man-tbls.pl, then copied and pasted in.  Please update
.\" them if you change the source data structures in select.c.
.fl
.ne 40v
.SS -f \(em Finger Position (FGP)
Finger positions are defined in ANSI/NIST-ITL\~1-2007, Table\~12 \fIFinger
position code & maximum image dimensions\fR, page\~31.
Some named sets of finger positions, appear at the beginning of the
following table, followed by the individual types listed in the
standard.
.P
Some extra thumb positions are defined in the standard.
Positions 1 and 6 are like all the other individual fingers, but
positions 11 and 12 indicate plain individual thumbs, and position 15
specifies both thumbs together.
The names \fIthumb\fR, \fIright thumb\fR, and \fIleft thumb\fR refer
to the relevant subsets of the four individual thumb positions.
In order to retrieve only rolled thumbs in positions 1 and 6, one may
specify a rolled impression type, e.g., \fI-f\~thumb:rolled\fR or,
more concisely, \fI-ft:r\fR.
.TS
allbox, tab(:);
 cb cb cb , l l l .
Full Name:Alternatives:Values
thumb:t:1, 6, 11, 12
index finger:i, if:2, 7
middle finger:m, mf:3, 8
ring finger:r, rf:4, 9
little finger:l, lf:5, 10
right hand finger:rhf:1, 2, 3, 4,  5, 11, 13
left hand finger:lhf:6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 14
unknown finger:uf:0
right thumb:rt:1, 11
right index finger:rif, ri:2
right middle finger:rmf:3
right ring finger:rrf:4
right little finger:rlf, rl:5
left thumb:lt:6, 12
left index finger:lif:7
left middle finger:lmf:8
left ring finger:lrf:9
left little finger:llf:10
plain right thumb:prt:11
plain left thumb:plt:12
plain right four fingers:prff, r4:13
plain left four fingers:plff, l4:14
eji:tip:19
.TE
.P
.ne 40v
.SS -p \(em Palm Position (PLP)
Palm positions are defined in ANSI/NIST-ITL\~1-2007, Table\~35 \fIPalm
codes and dimensions\fR, page\~84.
.TS
allbox, tab(:);
 cb cb cb , l l l .
Full Name:Alternatives:Values
interdigital::31, 34
thenar::32, 35
hypothenar::33, 36
right palm:rp:T{
21, 22, 25, 26, 29, 31, 32, 33
T}
left palm:lp:T{
23, 24, 27, 28, 30, 34, 35, 36
T}
unknown palm:up:20
right full palm:rfp:21
right writer's palm:rwp:22
left full palm:lfp:23
left writer's palm:lwp:24
full palm:fp:21, 23
writer's palm:wp:22, 24
right lower palm:rlp:25
right upper palm:rup:26
left lower palm:llp:27
left upper palm:lup:28
lower palm:lp:25, 27
upper palm:up:26, 28
right other:ro:29
left other:lo:30
other palm:op:29, 30
right interdigital:rin:31
right thenar:rthe:32
right hypothenar:rhy:33
left interdigital:lin:34
left thenar:lthe:35
left hypothenar:lhy:36
.TE
.P
.SS -e \(em Either Finger or Palm Position (FGPLP)
Type-13 records accept both finger and palm positions in the FGP
field, so they are combined in this type of selector.
Notice that prefixes that work for the finger or palm positions
separately might not be sufficient for this combined set.
For example, \fIth\fR matches either \fIthumb\fR or \fIthenar\fR when
the lists are separate.  
When they are combined \fIth\fR no longer matches only one
possiblilty, so either a \fIu\fR or \fIe\fR needs to be added to
distinguish between \fIthumb\fR and \fIthenar\fR.
In this case, \fIthumb\fR could be specified more concisely using the
explicitly defined abbreviation \fIt\fR.
.fl
.ne 50v
.SS -i \(em Impression Types (IMP)
Impression Types are defined in ANSI/NIST-ITL\~1-2007, Table\~11
\fIFinger & palm impression types\fR, page\~30.
.TS
allbox, tab(:);
 cb cb cb , l l l .
Full Name:Alternatives:Values
rolled:r:1, 3, 21, 23, 25, 27
plain:p:0, 2, 20, 22, 24, 26
latent:lat:T{
4, 5, 6, 7, 12, 13, 14, 15
T}
live-scan:live:T{
0, 1, 8, 10, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27
T}
nonlive-scan:nonlive:2, 3, 11
palm::12, 13, 14, 15
live-scan plain:lsp, lspl:0
live-scan rolled:lsr, lsro:1
nonlive-scan plain:nsp, nspl:2
nonlive-scan rolled:nsr, nsro:3
latent impression:li:4
latent tracing:lt:5
latent photo:lp:6
latent lift:ll:7
live-scan vertical swipe:lsvs:8
live-scan palm:lspa:10
nonlive-scan palm:nspa:11
latent palm impression:lpi:12
latent palm tracing:lpt:13
latent palm photo:lpp:14
latent palm lift:lpl:15
T{
live-scan optical contact plain
T}:lsocp:20
T{
live-scan optical contact rolled
T}:lsocr:21
T{
live-scan non-optical contact plain
T}:lsnocp:22
T{
live-scan non-optical contact rolled
T}:lsnocr:23
T{
live-scan optical contactless plain
T}:lsoclp:24
T{
live-scan optical contactless rolled
T}:lsoclr:25
T{
live-scan non-optical contactless plain
T}:lsnoclp:26
T{
live-scan non-optical contactless rolled
T}:lsnoclr:27
other::28
unknown::29
.TE
.P
.ne 35v
.SS -t \(em Logical Record Type (LRT)
Logical record types are defined in ANSI/NIST, Table\~4 \fILogical
record types\fR, page\~13.
.TS 
allbox, tab(:);
 cb cb cb , l l l .
Full Name:Alternatives:Values
grey print:gp:4, 13, 14
Transaction information:ti:1
T{
User-defined descriptive text
T}:udt:2
T{
Low-resolution grayscale fingerprint image
T}:lrgsfi:3
T{
High-resolution grayscale fingerprint image
T}:hrgsfi:4
T{
Low-resolution binary fingerprint image
T}:lrbfi:5
T{
High-resolution binary fingerprint image
T}:hrbfi:6
User-defined image:udi:7
Signature image:si:8
Minutiae data:md:9
Facial & SMT image:fsmti:10
T{
Variable-resolution latent image
T}:vrli:13
T{
Variable-resolution fingerprint image
T}:vrfi:14
T{
Variable-resolution palmprint image
T}:vrpi:15
Iris image:ii:17
T{
CBEFF Biometric data record
T}:cbdr:99
.TE
.P
.ne 15v
.SS -q \(em NIST Fingerprint Quality Metric (NQM)
The NIST Fingerprint Quality Metrics values are defined in
NIST\~IR\~7151, \fINIST Fingerprint Image Quality\fR, Table\~2,
page\~12.
.TS
allbox, tab(:);
 cb cb cb , l l l .
Full Name:Alternatives:Values
excellent::1
very good:vg:2 
good::3 
fair::4 
poor::5 
.TE
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dpyan2k (1F),
.BR nfiq (1D)
.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
