.\" @(#)stackms.1 2008/10/02 NIST
.\" I Image Group
.\" G. T. Candela & Craig I. Watson
.\"
.TH STACKMS 1B "02 October 2008" "NIST" "NBIS Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
stackms \- stacks PCASYS formatted matrix files together.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stackms
.I <matrixfile_in[matrixfile_in...]> <matrixfile_out>
.I <matrixfile_out_desc> <ascii_outfile messages>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Stackms
stacks together several PCASYS "matrix" files: produces a file whose
matrix has, as its rows, the rows of all the input matrices. All input
matrices must have the same second dimension.  (The standard "cat"
(catenate files) command is insufficient for proper stacking of matrix
files, since the files contain header information and not just the
rows of entries.)
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I <matrixfile_in[matrixfile_in...]>
The matrix files to be read.  (Can be ascii or binary, and they don't
all have to have the same ascii/binary setting.)  All must have the
same second dimension.
.TP
.I <matrixfile_out>
The matrix file to be written.  Its rows will be the rows of all the
input matrices.
.TP
.I <matrixfile_out_desc>
A string to be written into the output matrix file as its description
string; must contain no embedded newline characters.  If it contains
spaces, tabs, or shell metacharacters that are not to be expanded,
then it should be quoted.  To leave the description empty, use '' (two
single quote marks, i.e. a single\-quoted empty string).  To let
stackms make the description (stating that the file was made by
stackms, and listing the names of the input files), use \- (hyphen).
.TP
.I <ascii_outfile>
If y, stackms makes an ascii output file; if n, it makes a binary
output file.  Binary is recommended, unless the output file must be
portable across different byte orders or floating\-point formats.
.TP
.I <messages>
If y, stackms writes a progress message to the standard output each
time it is about to start reading a new input file; if n, no messages.
.TP
\fB-version
\fRPrint ANSI/NIST stardand and NBIS software version.

.SH EXAMPLE(S)
From \fItest/pcasys/execs/stackms/stackms.src\fR:
.PP
.RS
.B % stackms ../meancov/fv1.men ../meancov/fv2.men tst.men - n y
.br 
Combines the mean files \fIfv1.men\fR and \fIfv2.men\fR into
a single file.  This is only and example, the \fBcmbmcs\fR should
be used to combine mean files.  The mean files were used to preserve
disk space.  The \fBstackms\fR in practice is used to combine feature
vector files (ie. where one wants to stack the data in the files).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
asc2bin (1B), bin2asc (1B)


.SH AUTHOR
NIST/ITL/DIV894/Image Group
